several doctors with firsthand
experience in Gaza have spoken to
journalists at the United Nations they
recounted the difficulties Medics face
trying to save lives in a Health Care
System that's collapsed alzer's gabri
Alando has more from New
York all of the doctors who spoke to
journalists here at un headquarters on
Tuesday recently returned from Gaza so
they have firsthand knowledge on the
situation there for some of them they
really wanted to put a human face on the
suffering that they saw firsthand I want
to focus on uh the people uh this is hi
Abu she's seven years old um she is one
of the victims of the war in Gaza um
abomb hit her family home so her father
and brother were killed and her mother
also was injured and she had burned and
she sustained U third degree burns on
40% of her body another doctor spoke of
some of the medical supplies that are
not reaching patients that need it the
most simple things like pain medication
and even an inhaler and this small vial
of medicine here is a medicine that we
use for sedation mazam verset this is
something that we could be using for our
patients who are there who are in pain
who are trying to we're trying to reset
their fractures we're trying to clean
their Burns it's an incredibly painful
process and this is something that can
help something this small we're not not
able to get into the Gaza Strip because
the trucks are stalled or if someone is
having difficulty breathing as you may
suspect may happen as bombs are dropping
and the air fills with smoke not able to
get a rescue inhaler in to be able to
treat their asthma and a medical
professional from the UK who's been
going back and forth to Gaza for nearly
15 years says he was not prepared for
what he saw on his most recent visit
especially when it came to Young young
burn victims the most devastating Burns
in small children one child Al never
forget had burned so bad you could see
her facial bones we knew there was no
chance of her surviving that but there
was no morphine to give her so Not only
was she inevitably going to die but she
would die in agony and what made it even
worse that there was nowhere for her to
go and die so she was just left on the
floor of the emergency department to die
many patients in hospitals in Gaza have
open wounds that cannot be healed
properly because of a lack of supplies
what does this mean over the long run
the the longer this war goes on the the
longer these wounds have to rot and I
mean really rot the infections are
getting worse and worse and it's
horrific it's horrific for our providers
and it's absolutely horrific for these
patients Palestinians are not suffering
just from physical wounds but also
increasingly from trauma next month a
mission made up of mental health experts
is expected to visit the besieged strip
it's believed to be one of the first
such missions to look at mental health
issues since October when Israel's war
on Gaza began Gabriel zando Al jazer at
the United Nations in New York